Dev normalize predicate (#804)
neo4j/docs-cypher: modules/ROOT/pages/syntax/operators.adoc

|===

[[match-string-is-normalized]]

> === Checking if a string is normalized `IS NORMALIZED`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Checking if a `STRING` `IS NORMALIZED`
```

The `IS NORMALIZED` operator is used to check whether the given `STRING` is in the `NFC` Unicode normalization form:

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

[NOTE]
====
Unicode normalization is a process that transforms different representations of the same string into a standardized form.
For more information, see the documentation for link:https://unicode.org/reports/tr15/#Norm_Forms[Unicode normalization forms].
====

```

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN "the \u212B char" IS NORMALIZED AS normalized
----

> The given string contains a non-normalized Unicode character: `\u212B`, therefore `false` is returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The given `STRING` contains a non-normalized Unicode character: `\u212B`, therefore `false` is returned.
```

> To normalize the string, it is possible to use the xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-normalize[normalize()] function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To normalize the `STRING`, it is possible to use the xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-normalize[normalize()] function.
```

> The given `STRING` contains a non-normalized Unicode character: `\u212B`, therefore `false` is returned.
> To normalize the `STRING`, it is possible to use the xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-normalize[normalize()] function.
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
> |===
> | normalized
> | false
> 2+|Rows: 1
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| normalized
| false
2+|Rows: 1
|===

Because the given `STRING` contains a non-normalized Unicode character (`\u212B`), `false` is returned.

To normalize a `STRING`, use the xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-normalize[normalize()] function.
```

> *Considerations:*
> 
> |===
> 
> | `IS NORMALIZED` returns `null` when used on a non-`STRING` value, e.g. `RETURN 1 IS NORMALIZED` returns `null`.
> 
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `IS NORMALIZED` operator returns `null` when used on a non-`STRING` value.
For example, `RETURN 1 IS NORMALIZED` returns `null`.
```

[[match-string-is-not-normalized]]

> === Checking if a string is not normalized `IS NOT NORMALIZED`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Checking if a `STRING` `IS NOT NORMALIZED`
```

The `IS NOT NORMALIZED` operator is used to check whether the given `STRING` is not in the `NFC` Unicode normalization form:

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN "the \u212B char" IS NOT NORMALIZED AS notNormalized
----

> The given string contains a non-normalized Unicode character: `\u212B`, therefore `true` is returned, as the string is not normalized.
> To normalize the string, it is possible to use the xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-normalize[normalize()] function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The given `STRING` contains a non-normalized Unicode character: `\u212B`, therefore `true` is returned, as the string is not normalized.
To normalize the `STRING`, it is possible to use the xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-normalize[normalize()] function.
```

> .Query
> [source, cypher]
> ----
> RETURN "the \u212B char" IS NOT NORMALIZED AS notNormalized
> ----
> 
> The given `STRING` contains a non-normalized Unicode character: `\u212B`, therefore `true` is returned, as the string is not normalized.
> To normalize the `STRING`, it is possible to use the xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-normalize[normalize()] function.
> 
> .Result
> [role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
> |===
> | notNormalized
> | true
> 2+|Rows: 1
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Query
[source, cypher]
----
RETURN "the \u212B char" IS NOT NORMALIZED AS notNormalized
----

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="1*<m"]
|===
| notNormalized
| true
2+|Rows: 1
|===

Because the given `STRING` contains a non-normalized Unicode character (`\u212B`), and is not normalized, `true` is returned.

To normalize a `STRING`, use the xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-normalize[normalize()] function.

```

> *Considerations:*
> 
> |===
> 
> | `IS NOT NORMALIZED` returns `null` when used on a non-`STRING` value, e.g. `RETURN 1 IS NOT NORMALIZED` returns `null`.
> 
> |===

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `IS NOT NORMALIZED` operator returns `null` when used on a non-`STRING` value.
For example, `RETURN 1 IS NOT NORMALIZED` returns `null`.
```

> ==== Using `IS NORMALIZED` with a specified normalization type
> It is also possible to define which Unicode normalization type is used, with the default being `NFC`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Using `IS NORMALIZED` with a specified normalization type

It is possible to define which Unicode normalization type is used (the default is `NFC`).
```

> The possible normalization types are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The available normalization types are:
```

* `NFC`
* `NFD`
* `NFKC`

> * `NFKD`

Reviewer: Should we have some information here about what differentiates these?

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
WITH "the \u00E4 char" as myString
RETURN myString IS NFC NORMALIZED AS nfcNormalized,
    myString IS NFD NORMALIZED AS nfdNormalized
----

> The given string contains the Unicode character: `\u00E4`, which is considered normalized in `NFC` form, but not in `NFD` form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The given `STRING` contains the Unicode character: `\u00E4`, which is considered normalized in `NFC` form, but not in `NFD` form.
```

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| nfcNormalized | nfdNormalized
| true          | false
2+|Rows: 2
|===

> It is also possible to specify the normalization form when using the negated normalization predicate e.g. `RETURN "string" IS NOT NFD NORMALIZED`.

Reviewer: Is operator a clearer word here?

```suggestion
It is also possible to specify the normalization form when using the negated normalization operator.
For example, `RETURN "string" IS NOT NFD NORMALIZED`.
```

To normalize a `STRING`, use the xref:functions/string.adoc#functions-normalize[normalize()] function.

Note that the `IS NOT NORMALIZED` operator returns `null` when used on a non-`STRING` value.
For example, `RETURN 1 IS NOT NORMALIZED` returns `null`.

[[match-string-is-normalized-specified-normal-form]]
==== Using `IS NORMALIZED` with a specified normalization type

It is possible to define which Unicode normalization type is used (the default is `NFC`).

The available normalization types are:

* `NFC`
* `NFD`
* `NFKC`
* `NFKD`

.Query
[source, cypher]
----
WITH "the \u00E4 char" as myString
RETURN myString IS NFC NORMALIZED AS nfcNormalized,
    myString IS NFD NORMALIZED AS nfdNormalized
----

The given `STRING` contains the Unicode character: `\u00E4`, which is considered normalized in `NFC` form, but not in `NFD` form.

.Result
[role="queryresult",options="header,footer",cols="2*<m"]
|===
| nfcNormalized | nfdNormalized
| true          | false
2+|Rows: 2
|===

It is also possible to specify the normalization form when using the negated normalization operator.

> For example, `RETURN "string" IS NOT NFD NORMALIZED`.
> 
> 
> 
> [[query-operators-temporal]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, `RETURN "string" IS NOT NFD NORMALIZED`.

[[query-operators-temporal]]
```
